# PellePrinter
A Brazilian 3D printing solution using pellets to provide a more efficient and cost-effective alternative compared to the traditional filament systems, through direct extrusion of pellets in a professional, but affordable, FDM printing system.

# Background

This is a project that I have been silently sketching for about a year now (~2023), between home and at university. I'm currently developing this project as my Undergraduate thesis and expect to start uploading all additional information and project files soon. My goal from start was to achieve a fully functional and complete system, great for professional setups by providing a much more versatile and cost-effective alternative over filament-based systems, while also being affordable enough for the enthusiasts all over the world who constitutes a big portion of the 3D printing community. This affordable-but-actually-great aspect resonates deeply with my brazillian context, where machines and technology in general are typically expensive, as it tends to be mostly usually imported, than produced locally. This IS why I want to develop something Accessible-but-Great, attractive to enthusiasts yet well-suited for more professional usages.

Of course, IT IS hard to achieve anything like 'one-size fits all' solutions. That's why I have been cooking this idea for so long, little and quick prototypes and experiments at home and at college, some sketeches and drawings, and hence why I'm now developing it in my thesis (that may or may not end up contemplating the project as a whole, or just a part of it. I'll have to see how it goes, not a lot of spare time as I also need to work). As said I sure do recognise the challenge of developing a system that is both affordable and proffessionally-suited, sure the most robust and feature-rich a system is the more expensive it tends to be. However, I also think and have seen (and possible you too) that this logic tends to be quite overestimated and oversimplyfied, it's not a rule of thumb. I'm not saying that I think it will be easily feasible to achieve an affordable professionally-suited solution.

- <b>What I aim is to have an at least similar but better acessibility than a modern multi material and fast filament printer</b>. So I'm all-in into beating this challenge up.
  
As I said, I understand the challenge, and maybe (possibly) there will be situations were compromises have to be made. However, if many things start going down that route, it's then very possible that what I end up doing will be spliting solutions by focus. <b>My goal is to achieve the best I can in a single system</b> (of course, not accounting for perifferals and accessories that may exist), but it's very possible that my expectation ends up proven too unfeaseble to meet in single system. So its very possbile that I end up having two different solutions: the very best I could fit in a general-public acessible solution, and then a professional solution.
